Verbesserung der Maintenance.md (#7)
ILIAS-TechnicalBoard/ILIAS: docs/development/maintenance-coordinator.md

## Role of the Coordinator

> The Coordinator is not the owner of the component but much more the curator. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Coordinator is not the owner of the component but rather the curator. 
```

The coordinator ensures the quality of contributions to the component and makes
it possible for others to contribute. The coordinator is responsible that the
documentation is kept up to date by the contributors and that the guidelines
of the component are met. The coordinator moderates the discussion to find a

> vision and about the development. The coordinator further is contact for any

Reviewer: Kleine sprachliche Änderung
```suggestion
vision and about the development. The coordinator further acts as single point of contact for any
```

sort of question that may arise about the respective component.

The motivation of the coordinator is mostly driven by the need of a reliable

> component for a certain aspect. Further, the coordinator is probably the most

Reviewer: Habe gerade Mühe mit dem Aspekt-Begriff hier. Ich schlage vor "for a certain aspect" ersatzlos zu streichen
```suggestion
component. Further, the coordinator is probably the most
```

attractive contractor for clients aiming to change aspects of the component due
to the very in-depth know-how and the listing as coordinator.

The PM and the TB appoint or replace coordinators. The coordinator role belongs to
a person, not a company. Since the role builds on social capital in the community

> and a vision of the component it will be near impossible to leave that role at a

Reviewer: Mehr sprachliches:
```suggestion
and a vision of the component it will be near impossible to leave that role with a
```

> company when moving on.

Reviewer: ...und gleich nochmals
```suggestion
company when a coordinator moves on.
```

It is encouraged that two people share the role of the coordinator for one
component to enhance it's [Bus factor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bus_factor).

<a name="change-management"></a>
## Change Management
Everybody may contribute to any aspect of the component. Such contributions are
handed in by pull requests or some other source of data if declared so in the

> components guidelines. Note that the general [contribution guideline](https://github.com/ILIAS-eLearning/ILIAS/blob/release_5-3/docs/documentation/contributing.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
component's guidelines. Note that the general [contribution guideline](https://github.com/ILIAS-eLearning/ILIAS/blob/release_5-3/docs/documentation/contributing.md)
```

gives a recommendation to the JF on whether to accept or decline the PR. The
decision of the JF may be implicit if no objections to the recommendation of the

> coordinator is made. If no agreement is achieved in the JF, the Technical Board

Reviewer: ```suggestion
coordinator are made. If no agreement is achieved in the JF, the Technical Board
```

will decide upon the request. Further note, that in the case of two ore more people
sharing the role of the coordinator, the feedback of one coordinator is enough for a
request to be processed further. If both give feedback, the points of both
coordinators must be respected. If the coordinators give contradictory feedback,
the coordinators must resolve their differences before further processing.

> Final implementations without further changes on the interface do not need formal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Final implementations without further changes to the interface do not need formal
```

<a name="scenarios"></a>
## Scenarios

> This maintainance-model is suited for components that have the potential to grow

Reviewer: Das ist sehr viktorianisch, eigentlich werden in modernem Englisch (fast) keine Bindestriche mehr verwendet :-).

Author: Mach gerne einfach selber! Virktorianisch ist anscheinend eher mein Stil =)

too large to be handled by one single developer and therefore highly benefit
from contributions from different developers and even service providers. It is

> further important that the component is of modular structure with different parts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
further important that the component has a modular structure with different parts
```

> following a similar scheme. It is especially suited if some component is of a

Reviewer: Sorry, wollte eigentlich nicht in deine Korrekturen hineinkorrigieren "of a" ist aber sehr ungebräuchlich, soweit ich weiss.
```suggestion
following a similar scheme. It is especially suited if some component is of
```

critical importance for many other components, since it is designed to allow a

> collaborative development of the vision for such a key-aspect.

Reviewer: See above. Eigentlich war "key aspect" die korrektere Variant.

<a name="expectations"></a>
## What can be expected of a coordinator?
* The coordinator MUST moderate discussions to find a vision on the development
of the component. The coordinator SHOULD document that vision publicly in a file
called `ROADMAP.md` in the root of the components directory.
* The coordinator MUST give recommendations to the JF whether to accept or
decline changes.
* If two or more people share the role of the coordinator and give contradictory
feedback for a change request, they MUST resolve the conflict as quickly as possible
and publish a new feedback without contradictions.
* If two or more people share the role of the coordinator they MUST define whom of

> them is contact person for Mantis bug reports as well as for other applicationsi

Reviewer: ```suggestion
them is the contact person for Mantis bug reports as well as for other applications
```

that do not support more than one contact.
* If two or more people share the role of the coordinator they MAY give feedback
on different aspects of a change request. In such a case, both feedbacks MUST be
considered.
* The coordinator MUST accept decisions of the Technical Board on change requests
in case of disagreement on the JF.

> * The coordinator MUST review final implementation of some accepted interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The coordinator MUST review the final implementation of accepted interface
```

> change or organize some substitute to perform the review.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
changes or organize some substitute to perform the review.
```

* The coordinator MAY ask for funding to perform a review.

> * The coordinator MAY ask to split some interface change or implementation into

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The coordinator MAY ask to split an interface change or implementation into
```

multiple pieces to make the change easier to understand.
* The coordinator MUST ensure, that the documentation of the component is up to
date. The coordinator MAY ask to update the documentation as a condition for
accepting some change request.
* The coordinator MUST ensure, that the automated unit tests are kept up to date.
The coordinator MAY ask other developers to write and update those tests in their
own development.

> * The coordinator MUST assign unassigned issues to the responsible developer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The coordinator MUST assign unassigned issues concerning the component to the responsible developer.
```

> * The coordinator SHOULD devise some guidelines concerning the processes around

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The coordinator SHOULD devise some guidelines specifying the processes concerning```

Author: To much of "`"... =)

> * The coordinator SHOULD devise some guidelines concerning the processes around

Author: ```suggestion
* The coordinator SHOULD devise some guidelines specifying the processes concerning
```

> the respective component fitting it's exact needs as done so for the UI-Service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the respective component in a way that fits it's exact needs. Have a look at the UI-Service for an example.
```
